docs/docs/module_guides/workflow/index.md, before:

# Workflows

A `Workflow` in LlamaIndex is an event-driven abstraction used to chain together several events. Workflows are made up of `steps`, with each step responsible for handling certain event types and emitting new events.

`Workflow`s in LlamaIndex work by decorating function with a `@step` decorator. This is used to infer the input and output types of each workflow for validation, and ensures each step only runs when an accepted event is ready.

You can create a `Workflow` to do anything! Build an agent, a RAG flow, an extraction flow, or anything else you want.

Workflows are also automatically instrumented, so you get observability into each step using tools like [Arize Pheonix](../observability/index.md#arize-phoenix-local). (**NOTE:** Observability works for integrations that take advantage of the newer instrumentation system. Usage may vary.)

!!! tip
    Workflows make async a first-class citizen, and this page assumes you are running in an async environment. What this means for you is setting up your code for async properly. If you are already running in a server like FastAPI, or in a notebook, you can freely use await already!

    If you are running your own python scripts, its best practice to have a single async entry point.

    ```python
    async def main():
        w = MyWorkflow(...)
        result = await w.run(...)
        print(result)


    if __name__ == "__main__":
        import asyncio

        asyncio.run(main())
    ```

## Getting Started

As an illustrative example, let's consider a naive workflow where a joke is generated and then critiqued.

```python
from llama_index.core.workflow import (
    Event,
    StartEvent,
    StopEvent,
    Workflow,
    step,
)

# `pip install llama-index-llms-openai` if you don't already have it
from llama_index.llms.openai import OpenAI


class JokeEvent(Event):
    joke: str


class JokeFlow(Workflow):
    llm = OpenAI()

    @step
    async def generate_joke(self, ev: StartEvent) -> JokeEvent:
        topic = ev.topic

        prompt = f"Write your best joke about {topic}."
        response = await self.llm.acomplete(prompt)
        return JokeEvent(joke=str(response))

    @step
    async def critique_joke(self, ev: JokeEvent) -> StopEvent:
        joke = ev.joke

        prompt = f"Give a thorough analysis and critique of the following joke: {joke}"
        response = await self.llm.acomplete(prompt)
        return StopEvent(result=str(response))


w = JokeFlow(timeout=60, verbose=False)
result = await w.run(topic="pirates")
print(str(result))
```

There's a few moving pieces here, so let's go through this piece by piece.

### Defining Workflow Events

```python
class JokeEvent(Event):
    joke: str
```

Events are user-defined pydantic objects. You control the attributes and any other auxiliary methods. In this case, our workflow relies on a single user-defined event, the `JokeEvent`.

### Setting up the Workflow Class

```python
class JokeFlow(Workflow):
    llm = OpenAI(model="gpt-4o-mini")
    ...
```

Our workflow is implemented by subclassing the `Workflow` class. For simplicity, we attached a static `OpenAI` llm instance.

### Workflow Entry Points

```python
class JokeFlow(Workflow):
    ...

    @step
    async def generate_joke(self, ev: StartEvent) -> JokeEvent:
        topic = ev.topic

        prompt = f"Write your best joke about {topic}."
        response = await self.llm.acomplete(prompt)
        return JokeEvent(joke=str(response))

    ...
```

Here, we come to the entry-point of our workflow. While events are use-defined, there are two special-case events, the `StartEvent` and the `StopEvent`. Here, the `StartEvent` signifies where to send the initial workflow input.

The `StartEvent` is a bit of a special object since it can hold arbitrary attributes. Here, we accessed the topic with `ev.topic`, which would raise an error if it wasn't there. You could also do `ev.get("topic")` to handle the case where the attribute might not be there without raising an error.

At this point, you may have noticed that we haven't explicitly told the workflow what events are handled by which steps. Instead, the `@step` decorator is used to infer the input and output types of each step. Furthermore, these inferred input and output types are also used to verify for you that the workflow is valid before running!

### Workflow Exit Points

```python
class JokeFlow(Workflow):
    ...

    @step
    async def critique_joke(self, ev: JokeEvent) -> StopEvent:
        joke = ev.joke

        prompt = f"Give a thorough analysis and critique of the following joke: {joke}"
        response = await self.llm.acomplete(prompt)
        return StopEvent(result=str(response))

    ...
```

Here, we have our second, and last step, in the workflow. We know its the last step because the special `StopEvent` is returned. When the workflow encounters a returned `StopEvent`, it immediately stops the workflow and returns whatever the result was.

In this case, the result is a string, but it could be a dictionary, list, or any other object.

### Running the Workflow

```python
w = JokeFlow(timeout=60, verbose=False)
result = await w.run(topic="pirates")
print(str(result))
```

Lastly, we create and run the workflow. There are some settings like timeouts (in seconds) and verbosity to help with debugging.

The `.run()` method is async, so we use await here to wait for the result.

## Drawing the Workflow

Workflows can be visualized, using the power of type annotations in your step definitions. You can either draw all possible paths through the workflow, or the most recent execution, to help with debugging.

Firs install:

```bash
pip install llama-index-utils-workflow
```

Then import and use:

```python
from llama_index.utils.workflow import (
    draw_all_possible_flows,
    draw_most_recent_execution,
)

# Draw all
draw_all_possible_flows(JokeFlow, filename="joke_flow_all.html")

# Draw an execution
w = JokeFlow()
await w.run(topic="Pirates")
draw_most_recent_execution(w, filename="joke_flow_recent.html")
```

## Working with Global Context/State

Optionally, you can choose to use global context between steps. For example, maybe multiple steps access the original `query` input from the user. You can store this in global context so that every step has access.

```python
from llama_index.core.workflow import Context


@step
async def query(self, ctx: Context, ev: MyEvent) -> StopEvent:
    # retrieve from context
    query = await ctx.get("query")

    # do something with context and event
    val = ...
    result = ...

    # store in context
    await ctx.set("key", val)

    return StopEvent(result=result)
```

## Waiting for Multiple Events

The context does more than just hold data, it also provides utilities to buffer and wait for multiple events.

For example, you might have a step that waits for a query and retrieved nodes before synthesizing a response:

```python
from llama_index.core import get_response_synthesizer


@step
async def synthesize(
    self, ctx: Context, ev: QueryEvent | RetrieveEvent
) -> StopEvent | None:
    data = ctx.collect_events(ev, [QueryEvent, RetrieveEvent])
    # check if we can run
    if data is None:
        return None

    # unpack -- data is returned in order
    query_event, retrieve_event = data

    # run response synthesis
    synthesizer = get_response_synthesizer()
    response = synthesizer.synthesize(
        query_event.query, nodes=retrieve_event.nodes
    )

    return StopEvent(result=response)
```

Using `ctx.collect_events()` we can buffer and wait for ALL expected events to arrive. This function will only return data (in the requested order) once all events have arrived.

## Manually Triggering Events

Normally, events are triggered by returning another event during a step. However, events can also be manually dispatched using the `ctx.send_event(event)` method within a workflow.

Here is a short toy example showing how this would be used:

```python
from llama_index.core.workflow import step, Context, Event, Workflow


class MyEvent(Event):
    pass


class MyEventResult(Event):
    result: str


class GatherEvent(Event):
    pass


class MyWorkflow(Workflow):
    @step
    async def dispatch_step(
        self, ctx: Context, ev: StartEvent
    ) -> MyEvent | GatherEvent:
        ctx.send_event(MyEvent())
        ctx.send_event(MyEvent())

        return GatherEvent()

    @step
    async def handle_my_event(self, ev: MyEvent) -> MyEventResult:
        return MyEventResult(result="result")

    @step
    async def gather(
        self, ctx: Context, ev: GatherEvent | MyEventResult
    ) -> StopEvent | None:
        # wait for events to finish
        events = ctx.collect_events([MyEventResult, MyEventResult])
        if not events:
            return None

        return StopEvent(result=events)
```

## Streaming Events

You can also iterate over events as they come in. This is useful for streaming purposes, showing progress, or for debugging.

```python
w = MyWorkflow(...)

handler = w.run(topic="Pirates")

async for event in handler.stream_events():
    print(event)

result = await handler
```

## Retry steps execution in case of failures

A step that fails its execution might result in the failure of the entire workflow, but oftentimes errors are
expected and the execution can be safely retried. Think of a HTTP request that times out because of a transient
congestion of the network, or an external API call that hits a rate limiter.

For all those situation where you want the step to try again, you can use a "Retry Policy". A retry policy is an object
that instructs the workflow to execute a step multiple times, dictating how much time has to pass before a new attempt.
Policies take into consideration how much time passed since the first failure, how many consecutive failures happened
and which was the last error occurred.

To set a policy for a specific step, all you have to do is passing a policy object to the `@step` decorator:


```python
from llama_index.core.workflow.retry_policy import ConstantDelayRetryPolicy


class MyWorkflow(Workflow):
    # ...more workflow definition...

    # This policy will retry this step on failure every 5 seconds for at most 10 times
    @step(retry_policy=ConstantDelayRetryPolicy(delay=5, maximum_attempts=10))
    async def flaky_step(self, ctx: Context, ev: StartEvent) -> StopEvent:
        result = flaky_call()  # this might raise
        return StopEvent(result=result)
```

You can see the [API docs](../../api_reference/workflow/retry_policy/) for a detailed description of the policies
available in the framework. If you can't find a policy that's suitable for your use case, you can easily write a
custom one. The only requirement for custom policies is to write a Python class that respects the `RetryPolicy`
protocol. In other words, your custom policy class must have a method with the following signature:

```python
def next(
    self, elapsed_time: float, attempts: int, error: Exception
) -> Optional[float]:
    ...
```

For example, this is a retry policy that's excited about the weekend and only retries a step if it's Friday:

```python
from datetime import datetime


class RetryOnFridayPolicy:
    def next(
        self, elapsed_time: float, attempts: int, error: Exception
    ) -> Optional[float]:
        if datetime.today().strftime("%A") == "Friday":
            # retry in 5 seconds
            return 5
        # tell the workflow we don't want to retry
        return None
```

## Stepwise Execution

Workflows have built-in utilities for stepwise execution, allowing you to control execution and debug state as things progress.

```python
w = JokeFlow(...)

# Kick off the workflow
handler = w.run(topic="Pirates")

# Iterate until done
async for _ in handler:
    # inspect context
    # val = await handler.ctx.get("key")
    continue

# Get the final result
result = await handler
```

## Decorating non-class Functions

You can also decorate and attach steps to a workflow without subclassing it.

Below is the `JokeFlow` from earlier, but defined without subclassing.

```python
from llama_index.core.workflow import (
    Event,
    StartEvent,
    StopEvent,
    Workflow,
    step,
)
from llama_index.llms.openai import OpenAI


class JokeEvent(Event):
    joke: str


joke_flow = Workflow(timeout=60, verbose=True)


@step(workflow=joke_flow)
async def generate_joke(ev: StartEvent) -> JokeEvent:
    topic = ev.topic

    prompt = f"Write your best joke about {topic}."

    llm = OpenAI()
    response = await llm.acomplete(prompt)
    return JokeEvent(joke=str(response))


@step(workflow=joke_flow)
async def critique_joke(ev: JokeEvent) -> StopEvent:
    joke = ev.joke

    prompt = (
        f"Give a thorough analysis and critique of the following joke: {joke}"
    )
    response = await llm.acomplete(prompt)
    return StopEvent(result=str(response))
```

## Maintaining Context Across Runs

As you have seen, workflows have a `Context` object that can be used to maintain state across steps.

If you want to maintain state across multiple runs of a workflow, you can pass a previous context into the `.run()` method.

```python
handler = w.run()
result = await handler

# continue with next run
handler = w.run(ctx=handler.ctx)
result = await handler
```

## Examples

You can find many useful examples of using workflows in the notebooks below:

- [Advanced Text-to-SQL](../../examples/workflow/advanced_text_to_sql.ipynb)
- [Citation Query Engine](../../examples/workflow/citation_query_engine.ipynb)
- [Common Workflow Patterns](../../examples/workflow/workflows_cookbook.ipynb)
- [Corrective RAG](../../examples/workflow/corrective_rag_pack.ipynb)
- [Function Calling Agent](../../examples/workflow/function_calling_agent.ipynb)
- [Human In The Loop: Story Crafting](../../examples/workflow/human_in_the_loop_story_crafting.ipynb)
- [JSON Query Engine](../../examples/workflow/JSONalyze_query_engine.ipynb)
- [Long RAG](../../examples/workflow/long_rag_pack.ipynb)
- [Multi-Step Query Engine](../../examples/workflow/multi_step_query_engine.ipynb)
- [Multi-Strategy Workflow](../../examples/workflow/multi_strategy_workflow.ipynb)
- [RAG + Reranking](../../examples/workflow/rag.ipynb)
- [ReAct Agent](../../examples/workflow/react_agent.ipynb)
- [Reliable Structured Generation](../../examples/workflow/reflection.ipynb)
- [Router Query Engine](../../examples/workflow/router_query_engine.ipynb)
- [Self Discover Workflow](../../examples/workflow/self_discover_workflow.ipynb)
- [Sub-Question Query Engine](../../examples/workflow/sub_question_query_engine.ipynb)
- [Utilizing Concurrency](../../examples/workflow/parallel_execution.ipynb)

Commit message:

Add more workflow references to docs (#16102)

docs/docs/module_guides/workflow/index.md, after:

# Workflows

A `Workflow` in LlamaIndex is an event-driven abstraction used to chain together several events. Workflows are made up of `steps`, with each step responsible for handling certain event types and emitting new events.

`Workflow`s in LlamaIndex work by decorating function with a `@step` decorator. This is used to infer the input and output types of each workflow for validation, and ensures each step only runs when an accepted event is ready.

You can create a `Workflow` to do anything! Build an agent, a RAG flow, an extraction flow, or anything else you want.

Workflows are also automatically instrumented, so you get observability into each step using tools like [Arize Pheonix](../observability/index.md#arize-phoenix-local). (**NOTE:** Observability works for integrations that take advantage of the newer instrumentation system. Usage may vary.)

!!! tip
    Workflows make async a first-class citizen, and this page assumes you are running in an async environment. What this means for you is setting up your code for async properly. If you are already running in a server like FastAPI, or in a notebook, you can freely use await already!

    If you are running your own python scripts, its best practice to have a single async entry point.

    ```python
    async def main():
        w = MyWorkflow(...)
        result = await w.run(...)
        print(result)


    if __name__ == "__main__":
        import asyncio

        asyncio.run(main())
    ```

## Getting Started

As an illustrative example, let's consider a naive workflow where a joke is generated and then critiqued.

```python
from llama_index.core.workflow import (
    Event,
    StartEvent,
    StopEvent,
    Workflow,
    step,
)

# `pip install llama-index-llms-openai` if you don't already have it
from llama_index.llms.openai import OpenAI


class JokeEvent(Event):
    joke: str


class JokeFlow(Workflow):
    llm = OpenAI()

    @step
    async def generate_joke(self, ev: StartEvent) -> JokeEvent:
        topic = ev.topic

        prompt = f"Write your best joke about {topic}."
        response = await self.llm.acomplete(prompt)
        return JokeEvent(joke=str(response))

    @step
    async def critique_joke(self, ev: JokeEvent) -> StopEvent:
        joke = ev.joke

        prompt = f"Give a thorough analysis and critique of the following joke: {joke}"
        response = await self.llm.acomplete(prompt)
        return StopEvent(result=str(response))


w = JokeFlow(timeout=60, verbose=False)
result = await w.run(topic="pirates")
print(str(result))
```

There's a few moving pieces here, so let's go through this piece by piece.

### Defining Workflow Events

```python
class JokeEvent(Event):
    joke: str
```

Events are user-defined pydantic objects. You control the attributes and any other auxiliary methods. In this case, our workflow relies on a single user-defined event, the `JokeEvent`.

### Setting up the Workflow Class

```python
class JokeFlow(Workflow):
    llm = OpenAI(model="gpt-4o-mini")
    ...
```

Our workflow is implemented by subclassing the `Workflow` class. For simplicity, we attached a static `OpenAI` llm instance.

### Workflow Entry Points

```python
class JokeFlow(Workflow):
    ...

    @step
    async def generate_joke(self, ev: StartEvent) -> JokeEvent:
        topic = ev.topic

        prompt = f"Write your best joke about {topic}."
        response = await self.llm.acomplete(prompt)
        return JokeEvent(joke=str(response))

    ...
```

Here, we come to the entry-point of our workflow. While events are use-defined, there are two special-case events, the `StartEvent` and the `StopEvent`. Here, the `StartEvent` signifies where to send the initial workflow input.

The `StartEvent` is a bit of a special object since it can hold arbitrary attributes. Here, we accessed the topic with `ev.topic`, which would raise an error if it wasn't there. You could also do `ev.get("topic")` to handle the case where the attribute might not be there without raising an error.

At this point, you may have noticed that we haven't explicitly told the workflow what events are handled by which steps. Instead, the `@step` decorator is used to infer the input and output types of each step. Furthermore, these inferred input and output types are also used to verify for you that the workflow is valid before running!

### Workflow Exit Points

```python
class JokeFlow(Workflow):
    ...

    @step
    async def critique_joke(self, ev: JokeEvent) -> StopEvent:
        joke = ev.joke

        prompt = f"Give a thorough analysis and critique of the following joke: {joke}"
        response = await self.llm.acomplete(prompt)
        return StopEvent(result=str(response))

    ...
```

Here, we have our second, and last step, in the workflow. We know its the last step because the special `StopEvent` is returned. When the workflow encounters a returned `StopEvent`, it immediately stops the workflow and returns whatever the result was.

In this case, the result is a string, but it could be a dictionary, list, or any other object.

### Running the Workflow

```python
w = JokeFlow(timeout=60, verbose=False)
result = await w.run(topic="pirates")
print(str(result))
```

Lastly, we create and run the workflow. There are some settings like timeouts (in seconds) and verbosity to help with debugging.

The `.run()` method is async, so we use await here to wait for the result.

## Drawing the Workflow

Workflows can be visualized, using the power of type annotations in your step definitions. You can either draw all possible paths through the workflow, or the most recent execution, to help with debugging.

Firs install:

```bash
pip install llama-index-utils-workflow
```

Then import and use:

```python
from llama_index.utils.workflow import (
    draw_all_possible_flows,
    draw_most_recent_execution,
)

# Draw all
draw_all_possible_flows(JokeFlow, filename="joke_flow_all.html")

# Draw an execution
w = JokeFlow()
await w.run(topic="Pirates")
draw_most_recent_execution(w, filename="joke_flow_recent.html")
```

## Working with Global Context/State

Optionally, you can choose to use global context between steps. For example, maybe multiple steps access the original `query` input from the user. You can store this in global context so that every step has access.

```python
from llama_index.core.workflow import Context


@step
async def query(self, ctx: Context, ev: MyEvent) -> StopEvent:
    # retrieve from context
    query = await ctx.get("query")

    # do something with context and event
    val = ...
    result = ...

    # store in context
    await ctx.set("key", val)

    return StopEvent(result=result)
```

## Waiting for Multiple Events

The context does more than just hold data, it also provides utilities to buffer and wait for multiple events.

For example, you might have a step that waits for a query and retrieved nodes before synthesizing a response:

```python
from llama_index.core import get_response_synthesizer


@step
async def synthesize(
    self, ctx: Context, ev: QueryEvent | RetrieveEvent
) -> StopEvent | None:
    data = ctx.collect_events(ev, [QueryEvent, RetrieveEvent])
    # check if we can run
    if data is None:
        return None

    # unpack -- data is returned in order
    query_event, retrieve_event = data

    # run response synthesis
    synthesizer = get_response_synthesizer()
    response = synthesizer.synthesize(
        query_event.query, nodes=retrieve_event.nodes
    )

    return StopEvent(result=response)
```

Using `ctx.collect_events()` we can buffer and wait for ALL expected events to arrive. This function will only return data (in the requested order) once all events have arrived.

## Manually Triggering Events

Normally, events are triggered by returning another event during a step. However, events can also be manually dispatched using the `ctx.send_event(event)` method within a workflow.

Here is a short toy example showing how this would be used:

```python
from llama_index.core.workflow import step, Context, Event, Workflow


class MyEvent(Event):
    pass


class MyEventResult(Event):
    result: str


class GatherEvent(Event):
    pass


class MyWorkflow(Workflow):
    @step
    async def dispatch_step(
        self, ctx: Context, ev: StartEvent
    ) -> MyEvent | GatherEvent:
        ctx.send_event(MyEvent())
        ctx.send_event(MyEvent())

        return GatherEvent()

    @step
    async def handle_my_event(self, ev: MyEvent) -> MyEventResult:
        return MyEventResult(result="result")

    @step
    async def gather(
        self, ctx: Context, ev: GatherEvent | MyEventResult
    ) -> StopEvent | None:
        # wait for events to finish
        events = ctx.collect_events([MyEventResult, MyEventResult])
        if not events:
            return None

        return StopEvent(result=events)
```

## Streaming Events

You can also iterate over events as they come in. This is useful for streaming purposes, showing progress, or for debugging.

```python
w = MyWorkflow(...)

handler = w.run(topic="Pirates")

async for event in handler.stream_events():
    print(event)

result = await handler
```

## Retry steps execution in case of failures

A step that fails its execution might result in the failure of the entire workflow, but oftentimes errors are
expected and the execution can be safely retried. Think of a HTTP request that times out because of a transient
congestion of the network, or an external API call that hits a rate limiter.

For all those situation where you want the step to try again, you can use a "Retry Policy". A retry policy is an object
that instructs the workflow to execute a step multiple times, dictating how much time has to pass before a new attempt.
Policies take into consideration how much time passed since the first failure, how many consecutive failures happened
and which was the last error occurred.

To set a policy for a specific step, all you have to do is passing a policy object to the `@step` decorator:


```python
from llama_index.core.workflow.retry_policy import ConstantDelayRetryPolicy


class MyWorkflow(Workflow):
    # ...more workflow definition...

    # This policy will retry this step on failure every 5 seconds for at most 10 times
    @step(retry_policy=ConstantDelayRetryPolicy(delay=5, maximum_attempts=10))
    async def flaky_step(self, ctx: Context, ev: StartEvent) -> StopEvent:
        result = flaky_call()  # this might raise
        return StopEvent(result=result)
```

You can see the [API docs](../../api_reference/workflow/retry_policy/) for a detailed description of the policies
available in the framework. If you can't find a policy that's suitable for your use case, you can easily write a
custom one. The only requirement for custom policies is to write a Python class that respects the `RetryPolicy`
protocol. In other words, your custom policy class must have a method with the following signature:

```python
def next(
    self, elapsed_time: float, attempts: int, error: Exception
) -> Optional[float]:
    ...
```

For example, this is a retry policy that's excited about the weekend and only retries a step if it's Friday:

```python
from datetime import datetime


class RetryOnFridayPolicy:
    def next(
        self, elapsed_time: float, attempts: int, error: Exception
    ) -> Optional[float]:
        if datetime.today().strftime("%A") == "Friday":
            # retry in 5 seconds
            return 5
        # tell the workflow we don't want to retry
        return None
```

## Stepwise Execution

Workflows have built-in utilities for stepwise execution, allowing you to control execution and debug state as things progress.

```python
w = JokeFlow(...)

# Kick off the workflow
handler = w.run(topic="Pirates")

# Iterate until done
async for _ in handler:
    # inspect context
    # val = await handler.ctx.get("key")
    continue

# Get the final result
result = await handler
```

## Decorating non-class Functions

You can also decorate and attach steps to a workflow without subclassing it.

Below is the `JokeFlow` from earlier, but defined without subclassing.

```python
from llama_index.core.workflow import (
    Event,
    StartEvent,
    StopEvent,
    Workflow,
    step,
)
from llama_index.llms.openai import OpenAI


class JokeEvent(Event):
    joke: str


joke_flow = Workflow(timeout=60, verbose=True)


@step(workflow=joke_flow)
async def generate_joke(ev: StartEvent) -> JokeEvent:
    topic = ev.topic

    prompt = f"Write your best joke about {topic}."

    llm = OpenAI()
    response = await llm.acomplete(prompt)
    return JokeEvent(joke=str(response))


@step(workflow=joke_flow)
async def critique_joke(ev: JokeEvent) -> StopEvent:
    joke = ev.joke

    prompt = (
        f"Give a thorough analysis and critique of the following joke: {joke}"
    )
    response = await llm.acomplete(prompt)
    return StopEvent(result=str(response))
```

## Maintaining Context Across Runs

As you have seen, workflows have a `Context` object that can be used to maintain state across steps.

If you want to maintain state across multiple runs of a workflow, you can pass a previous context into the `.run()` method.

```python
handler = w.run()
result = await handler

# continue with next run
handler = w.run(ctx=handler.ctx)
result = await handler
```

## Deploying a Workflow

You can deploy a workflow as a multi-agent service with [llama_deploy](../../module_guides/workflow/deployment.md) ([repo](https://github.com/run-llama/llama_deploy)). Each agent service is orchestrated via a control plane and communicates via a message queue. Deploy locally or on Kubernetes.

## Examples

You can find many useful examples of using workflows in the notebooks below:

- [Advanced Text-to-SQL](../../examples/workflow/advanced_text_to_sql.ipynb)
- [Citation Query Engine](../../examples/workflow/citation_query_engine.ipynb)
- [Common Workflow Patterns](../../examples/workflow/workflows_cookbook.ipynb)
- [Corrective RAG](../../examples/workflow/corrective_rag_pack.ipynb)
- [Function Calling Agent](../../examples/workflow/function_calling_agent.ipynb)
- [Human In The Loop: Story Crafting](../../examples/workflow/human_in_the_loop_story_crafting.ipynb)
- [JSON Query Engine](../../examples/workflow/JSONalyze_query_engine.ipynb)
- [Long RAG](../../examples/workflow/long_rag_pack.ipynb)
- [Multi-Step Query Engine](../../examples/workflow/multi_step_query_engine.ipynb)
- [Multi-Strategy Workflow](../../examples/workflow/multi_strategy_workflow.ipynb)
- [RAG + Reranking](../../examples/workflow/rag.ipynb)
- [ReAct Agent](../../examples/workflow/react_agent.ipynb)
- [Reliable Structured Generation](../../examples/workflow/reflection.ipynb)
- [Router Query Engine](../../examples/workflow/router_query_engine.ipynb)
- [Self Discover Workflow](../../examples/workflow/self_discover_workflow.ipynb)
- [Sub-Question Query Engine](../../examples/workflow/sub_question_query_engine.ipynb)
- [Utilizing Concurrency](../../examples/workflow/parallel_execution.ipynb)
